-----------------------------Ans-1--------------------------------------------------------

A Least Recently Used (LRU) Cache organizes items in order of their use, therefore allowing
usto quickly check which item hasn't been used for the most amount of time.LRU cache is 
often implemented by pairing a doubly linked list with a hash map.

LRU caching scheme is basically removing the least recently used frame when the cache is full
and a new item needs to be added /referenced which is not already present in the cache.

If element is not present in the cache its called cache miss.If it is present then its called
cache hit.

We use two data structures to implement LRU Cache:
a-) Queue -It is implemented using a double linked list wherein the maximum size refers to the
	   total number of items present in the cache i.e.cache size.

b-)A Hash- having a page number as key and address of the corresponding queue node as value.

When an item or page is referenced then if it is present in the memory we detach the node of
the list and bring it to the first of the queue else if its not present in the queue then we
add a new node in the front and update the node addresses thereafter. If the queue is full in
this case then we remove the last node (i.e. least recently used) and add the new node in the
front of the queue.

----------------------------------------------Ans-2)--------------------------------------------
--- Browser checks cache for DNS entry to find the corresponding IP address of attainu.com.If not 
    found in cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find IP address of server that hosts 
    the domain name.

--- Then browser splits the URL into a hostname and a path.The HTTP request is then sent to ask for 
    the data at the given hostname and path.

--- The HTTP request goes to the DNS Server to get the respective IP address of the given hostname 
    and path.A DNS server is a computer server that contains a mapped database of public IP addresses 
    and their associated hostnames for everything on the Internet. 

--- Then a TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol)  connection is established
    to the computer specified via the IP address and then the browser sends the HTTP request 
    to the given IP address of the Website.

--- TCP/IP is a set of communication protocols used to interconnect network devices on the internet. 
    When the TCP/IP connection is established data from the web server can be freely shared under 
    the its protocols for the computer requesting the data.

--- When the Web server reads the hostname and path it generates an HTTP response containing that 
    data and sends the response to the browser.Now the received HTTP response is split into header 
    and the body therefore allowing the browser to interpret the data accordingly in order to display 
    it in the browser.

-------------------Ans-3)-------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------NAT---------------------
Network Address Translation (NAT) is an Internet standard that enables a local-area 
network (LAN) to use one set of IP addresses for internal traffic and a second set 
of addresses for external traffic. Developed by Cisco, the NAT process relies on a 
device (usually a router) to make all necessary IP address translations where the 
LAN meets the Internet.


Initially around 4 billion IP addresses were created and it was thought it'd be enough for the
world,but as internet grew largely the amount addresses were decreasing rapidly therefore in
order to tackle this problem NAT was introduced.NAT translates both public to private and 
private to public adrresses.

Users get one public IP address from their ISP which is used by all devices connected to the 
network and all the devices connected to that router are assigned private IP addresses 
respectively.

What it does is basically is that now all devices wont need a separate public IP address therefore
the decreasing rate of public address was saved. All devices will be connected to the router via
private address and therefore the cost if also reduced as now 10-15 devices will need 1 public IP 
instead of 10-15 separate ones respectively.


It also converts public to private when any external user wants to connect to the private IP address
connected computer.In this way the problem was solved via NAT

------------ARP------------------

The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communication protocol used for discovering 
the link layer address, such as a MAC address, associated with a given internet layer 
address, typically an IPv4 address. ARP is used to resolve IP addresses to MAC addresses.
An IP address is used to locate a device on a network wherein a MAC address is what identifies the 
actual device.


So in order to find MAC address a device will look into its internal list called an ARP cache if 
it doesn't find it there then it asks other devices in the local network for their MAC address
respectively.Once th MAC address received by computer matches the one it was searching then 
communication is establshed between them and therefore the address is also stored in cache.

ARP cache stores IP address to MAC address association to make a network efficient.
Two types of ARP entries are:
	a)Dynamic : An entry is created automatically when a device sends broadcast message out on the
	            network.
	b-)Static: An entry where someone manually enters IP to MAC address association using ARP 
		   command line utility.

--------------------------------Ans-4)---------------------------------------------------------
Deadlock is a condition wherein set of processes are blocked as each of them holds to a resource
and is waiting for another resource acquired by other processes.

A deadlock happens in operating system when two or more processes need
some resource to complete their execution that is held by the other process.
A deadlock occurs if the four Coffman conditions hold true. But these
conditions are not mutually exclusive. They are given as follows −

There are four conditions for deadlock to occur:
a-) Mutual exclusion: If P1 is using R1 resource for example then no ther process can use it.
b-) No preemption : It means we cannot pause the process as in a resource cannot be taken from 
a process unless the process releases the resource.Therefore a resource cannot be preempted from 
a process by force. A process can only release a resource voluntarily.

c-) Hold &Wait : A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources.
A process can hold multiple resources and still request more resources from
other processes which are holding them.

d-) Circular Wait : Some set of processes are waiting for one another in a circular manner as in 
process one depends on process two , two depends on three and three depends on one thereby forming
a circular chain.

Banker's algorithm can solve Deadlock.


-----------------------------------Ans-5)---------------------------------------------------------

--- Process of finding the value with the help of logical memory is called Pagination.
    It is a fixed size partitioning scheme for memory management.
    In paging, secondary memory and main memory are divided into equal fixed size partitions.

--- The partitions of main memory are called frames and that of secondary memory are called pages.

--- Each process is divided into parts wherein the size of each part is the same as that of page size.

--- The pages of process are stored in the frames of main memory depending upon their availability.

--- It is a logical concept used to access the data faster.

