----------------------------------------------Ans-1)-------------------------------------------
from collections import deque

class LRUCache:
    
    def __init__(self, c):
        self.c = c
        self.m = dict()
        self.deq = deque()
        
    def get(self, key):
        if key in self.m:
            value=self.m[key]
            self.deq.remove(key)
            self.deq.append(key)
            return value
        else:
            return -1
        
    def put(self, key, value):
        if key not in self.m:
            if len(self.deq) == self.c:
                oldest = self.deq.popleft()
                del self.m[oldest]
        else:
            self.deq.remove(key)
            
        self.m[key] = value
        self.deq.append(key)

----------------------------------------------Ans-2)--------------------------------------------
--- Browser checks cache for DNS entry to find the corresponding IP address of attainu.com.If not 
    found in cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find IP address of server that hosts 
    the domain name.

--- Then browser splits the URL into a hostname and a path.The HTTP request is then sent to ask for 
    the data at the given hostname and path.

--- The HTTP request goes to the DNS Server to get the respective IP address of the given hostname 
    and path.A DNS server is a computer server that contains a mapped database of public IP addresses 
    and their associated hostnames for everything on the Internet. 

--- Then a TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol)  connection is established
    to the computer specified via the IP address and then the browser sends the HTTP request 
    to the given IP address of the Website.

--- TCP/IP is a set of communication protocols used to interconnect network devices on the internet. 
    When the TCP/IP connection is established data from the web server can be freely shared under 
    the its protocols for the computer requesting the data.

--- When the Web server reads the hostname and path it generates an HTTP response containing that 
    data and sends the response to the browser.Now the received HTTP response is split into header 
    and the body therefore allowing the browser to interpret the data accordingly in order to display 
    it in the browser

--------------------------------------------Ans-3)--------------------------------------------------------

Private IP address-:
	-Scope is local
	-It is used to communicate within network.
	-Private IP addresses of the systems connected in a network differ in a uniform manner.
	-It works only in LAN
	-It is used to load network operating system.
	-It is available in free of cost.
	-Private IP can be known by entering “ipconfig” on command prompt.
	-Example: 192.168.1.10

Public IP Address-:
	-Scope is global.
	-It is used to communicate outside the network.
	-Public IP may differ in uniform or non-uniform manner.
	-It is used to get internet service.
	-It is controlled by ISP.
	-It is not free of cost.
	-Public IP can be known by searching “what is my ip” on google.
	-Example: 17.5.7.8


--------------------------------Ans-4)--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deadlock is a condition wherein set of processes are blocked as each of them holds to a resource
and is waiting for another resource acquired by other processes.

A deadlock happens in operating system when two or more processes need
some resource to complete their execution that is held by the other process.
A deadlock occurs if the four Coffman conditions hold true. But these
conditions are not mutually exclusive. They are given as follows −

There are four conditions for deadlock to occur:
a-) Mutual exclusion: If P1 is using R1 resource for example then no ther process can use it.
b-) No preemption : It means we cannot pause the process as in a resource cannot be taken from 
a process unless the process releases the resource.Therefore a resource cannot be preempted from 
a process by force. A process can only release a resource voluntarily.

c-) Hold &Wait : A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources.
A process can hold multiple resources and still request more resources from
other processes which are holding them.

d-) Circular Wait : Some set of processes are waiting for one another in a circular manner as in 
process one depends on process two , two depends on three and three depends on one thereby forming
a circular chain.

Banker's algorithm can solve Deadlock.

-------------------------------------Ans-5)--------------------------------------------------------------
1) Swap Memory-:
	Memory swapping is a memory reclamation method wherein memory contents not currently in use are swapped to 
	a disk to make the memory available for other applications or processes. The exact state or "page" of memory 
	is copied to the disk to make the data contiguous and easy to restore later.

	The purpose of the swapping in operating system is to access the data present in the hard disk and bring it to 
	RAM so that the application programs can use it. The thing to remember is that swapping is used only when data is not present in RAM.

	Although the process of swapping affects the performance of the system, it helps to run larger and more than 
	one process. This is the reason why swapping is also referred to as memory compaction.

	The concept of swapping has divided into two more concepts: Swap-in and Swap-out.

	-Swap-out is a method of removing a process from RAM and adding it to the hard disk.
	-Swap-in is a method of removing a program from a hard disk and putting it back into the main memory or RAM

2) Context Switching-:
	Context Switching involves storing the context or state of a process so that it can be reloaded when 
	required and execution can be resumed from the same point as earlier. This is a feature of a multitasking 
	operating system and allows a single CPU to be shared by multiple processes

	The steps involved in context switching are as follows −

	-Save the context of the process that is currently running on the CPU. Update the process control block and other important fields.
	-Move the process control block of the above process into the relevant queue such as the ready queue, I/O queue etc.
	-Select a new process for execution.
	-Update the process control block of the selected process. This includes updating the process state to running.
	-Update the memory management data structures as required.
	-Restore the context of the process that was previously running when it is loaded again on the processor. This is done by loading 
	the previous values of the process control block and registers.

3) IPv4-:

	Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4) is the fourth revision of the Internet Protocol and a widely used protocol in data communication 
	over different kinds of networks. IPv4 is a connectionless protocol used in packet-switched layer networks, such as Ethernet. It 
	provides the logical connection between network devices by providing identification for each device. There are many ways to configure 
	IPv4 with all kinds of devices – including manual and automatic configurations – depending on the network type.

	IPv4 is based on the best-effort model. This model guarantees neither delivery nor avoidance of duplicate delivery; these aspects are
	handled by the upper layer transport.
	
	Parts of IPv4
	Network part: 
		The network part indicates the distinctive variety that’s appointed to the network. The network part conjointly identifies the 
		category of the network that’s assigned.
	Host Part: 
		The host part uniquely identifies the machine on your network. This part of the IPv4 address is assigned to every host. 
		For each host on the network, the network part is the same, however, the host half must vary.
	Subnet number: 
		This is the nonobligatory part of IPv4. Local networks that have massive numbers of hosts are divided into subnets and subnet 
		numbers are appointed to that.

4) IPv6-:
	Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) is an Internet Protocol (IP) used for carrying data in packets from a source to a destination over 
	various networks. IPv6 is the enhanced version of IPv4 and can support very large numbers of nodes as compared to IPv4. It allows for 
	2128 possible node, or address, combinations.IPv6 is also known as Internet Protocol Next Generation (IPng).

	In IPv6 representation, we have three addressing methods :

		Unicast Address: Unicast Address identifies a single network interface. A packet sent to unicast address is delivered to the 
				 interface identified by that address.

		Multicast Address: Multicast Address is used by multiple hosts, called as Group, acquires a multicast destination address. 
				   These hosts need not be geographically together. If any packet is sent to this multicast address, it will 
				   be distributed to all interfaces corresponding to that multicast address.

		Anycast Address: Anycast Address is assigned to a group of interfaces. Any packet sent to anycast address will be delivered to 
				 only one member interface (mostly nearest host possible).