Question 1. Write short note on Process Life cycle.
Process:
A process is a program in execution. Any program which is running
in the computer is called process.
Every process will have a unique ID called, ‘Pid’.
Life Cycle of a Process:
When a process executes, it passes through different states.
These stages may differ in different operating systems, and the
names of these states are also not standardized.
In general, a process can have one of the following five states
at a time.
1 Start
This is the initial state when a process is first started/created.
2 Ready
The process is waiting to be assigned to a processor.
Ready processes are waiting to have the processor allocated to them
by the operating system so that they can run.
Process may come into this state after Start state or while running
it by but interrupted by the scheduler to assign CPU to some other
process.
3 Running
Once the process has been assigned to a processor by the OS
scheduler,
the process state is set to running and the processor executes its
instructions.
4 Waiting
Process moves into the waiting state if it needs to wait for a
resource, such as
waiting for user input, or waiting for a file to become available.
5 Terminated or Exit
Once the process finishes its execution, or it is terminated by
the operating system,
it is moved to the terminated state where it waits to be removed
from main memory.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Question 2. What role does an operating system perform?
Operating System:
An Operating System (OS) is an interface between a computer user
and computer hardware.
An operating system is a software which performs all the basic tasks
like file management, memory management, process management,
handling input and output, and controlling peripheral devices such
as disk drives and printers.
Important functions of an operating System:
Security –
The operating system uses password protection to protect user data
and similar other techniques.
It also prevents unauthorized access to programs and user data.
Control over system performance –
Monitors overall system health to help improve performance.
records the response time between service requests and system
response to have a complete view of the system health.
This can help improve performance by providing important 
information needed to troubleshoot problems.
Job accounting –
Operating system Keeps track of time and resources used by various
tasks and users, this information can be used to track resource
usage for a particular user or group of user.
Error detecting aids –
Operating system constantly monitors the system to detect errors
and avoid the malfunctioning of computer system.
Coordination between other software and users –
Operating systems also coordinate and assign interpreters,
compilers, assemblers and other software to the various users of
the computer systems.
 Memory Management –
The operating system manages the Primary Memory or Main Memory.
Main memory is made up of a large array of bytes or words where
each byte or word is assigned a certain address.
Main memory is a fast storage and it can be accessed directly by
the CPU. For a program to be executed, it should be first loaded
in the main memory.
An Operating System performs the following activities for memory
management:
It keeps tracks of primary memory, i.e., which bytes of memory are
used by which user program.
The memory addresses that have already been allocated and the
memory addresses of the memory that has not yet been used.
In multi programming, the OS decides the order in which process
are granted access to memory, and for how long.
It Allocates the memory to a process when the process requests it
and deallocates the memory when the process has terminated or is
performing an I/O operation.
Processor Management –
In a multi programming environment, the OS decides the order in
which processes have access to the processor, and how much
processing time each process has.
This function of OS is called process scheduling. An Operating
System performs the following activities for processor management.
Keeps tracks of the status of processes.
The program which perform this task is known as traffic controller.
Allocates the CPU that is processor to a process.
De-allocates processor when a process is no more required.
Device Management –
An OS manages device communication via their respective drivers.
It performs the following activities for device management. Keeps
tracks of all devices connected to system.
Designates a program responsible for every device known as the
Input/Output controller.
Decides which process gets access to a certain device and for how
long.
Allocates devices in an effective and efficient way.
Deallocates devices when they are no longer required.
File Management –
A file system is organized into directories for efficient or easy
navigation and usage.
These directories may contain other directories and other files.
An Operating System carries out the following file management
activities.
It keeps track of where information is stored, user access settings
and status of every file and more…
These facilities are collectively known as the file system. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Question 3. What is a process ?
Process:
A process is a program in execution. Any program which is running
in the computer is called process.
Every process will have a unique ID called, ‘Pid’.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Question 4. What is the job of a long term scheduler?
It is also called a job scheduler.
A long-term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to
the system for processing.
It selects processes from the queue and loads them into memory for
execution.
Process loads into the memory for CPU scheduling.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Question 5. What is Response time?
Response Time:
Response Time is the time spent between the ready state and getting
the CPU
for the first time. Waiting Time is the total time taken by the
process in the
ready state.
P ST CT ST – Schedule Time CT – Completion Time
P0 0 5
P1 3 7
P2 5 3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Question 6. What is preemptive scheduling and non-preemptive
scheduling?
Preemptive Scheduling is a CPU scheduling technique that works by
dividing time slots of CPU to a given process.
The time slot given might be able to complete the whole process
or might not be able to it.
When the burst time of the process is greater than CPU cycle, it
is placed back into the ready queue and will execute in the next
chance.
This scheduling is used when the process switch to ready state.
Non-preemptive Scheduling is a CPU scheduling technique the
process takes the resource (CPU time) and holds it till the process
gets terminated or is pushed to the waiting state.
No process is interrupted until it is completed, and after that
processor switches to another process. 